another two questions from my nearly
infinite number of questions here at the
QA this is part three of the second Q&A
session of done 2016 coming to you from
the charming town of kunming yunnan
china um of these two questions the
second one is directly related to
veganism the first one not so much so
have a question here from laura d who
asks about the profound differences
between Asian and Western culture her
interest is in Japan more than China
I've done a lot of research on Japan
last year too lately I'm just lately I'm
doing China again and she is asking does
it help to know particular philosophical
works so written philosophy in
understanding the the underpinnings of
an Asian culture you know such as Japan
or China now I'm in a position to speak
on this both in terms of Buddhist
philosophy and you know modern Western
philosophy and political philosophy and
the big problem you run into you here is
really self deception on the part of the
interpreter which is a huge huge problem
it is incredibly easy for a modern
interpreter to encounter something in
society and convince himself or convince
herself that they're seeing the
influence of some idea in an ancient
book you know whether it's a Taoist
philosopher or a Confucian philosopher
or Buddhist philosophy or what have you
there's an oval there's a sort of
self-hypnosis that goes on when
Westerners start with a piece of ancient
philosophical text and then go out
looking for its affirmation in modern
society I've seen this thousands of
times in it's a peculiar sort of ego
trip right because the the person doing
that analysis they're really convincing
themselves they know better than all the
members of the culture surrounding them
whether that's China or allow so what
have you and this skips the hard work of
looking at all the intermediary stages
for how a philosophy becomes known or
influential in a society in the real
world so to give you an example when I
leave
in Laos Laos is both a Buddhist country
and a communist country and I really did
research into what was the living
culture of both communism and Buddhism
so to give you an example how does
anyone in Laos know anything about
Buddhist philosophy well I actually went
to the College where the Buddhist monks
are educated the elite Buddhist monks
not all of the Buddhist monks go to
college and that looked at the actual
text books that were used to teach
Buddhist monks there now at that time
the main text book still being used to
teach you know lotion monks what
Buddhism was in Laos was written by a
French man it was written by Louis fino
so this isn't just Western influence
this is Western influence at a quite a
profound level and I note also that this
was my theory at the time the the way
the cover of the book and it was mostly
again louses a really poor country it
was them they were using photocopies of
photocopies of this book not real
printed copies and what they used for a
cover Louis finos name was almost
invisible and the name of the translator
who was Lao was quite large and
prominent so I think the vast majority
people studying it they didn't realize
the author was French they didn't
realize this is Western influence so you
know they're you're looking at a great
example of how you know it might be easy
to imagine though this philosophy from
2,500 years ago directly influences
people know philosophy from 2500 years
ago as reinterpreted by a Frenchman a
hundred years ago as translated and
adapted into Lao I don't know some
number of years ago as photocopied as
taught in the classroom in this in this
government-run institution that's what
influences people and even that's at an
elite level and then you can look at
folklore stories what's actually taught
in school curriculum how people actually
get to know this stuff of course you can
look at things like TV and movies you
know in a country like China the main
way people here get familiar with
Buddhist philosophy is probably through
kung fu movies which is the same in New
York City you know wu-tang the rap group
their main contact with Buddhist
philosophy plus two kung fu movie
it's the same for a lot of people in the
one were within within Asia you can't
presume that people are directly
influenced by them by some ancient
fragment of text how you know how are
people in England today influenced by
Plato or Aristotle first of all if
English is your first language you might
say well not at all you know the
influence of Plato whatever style is
very tiny but then if you actually think
about it you can dig into how are these
things taught how do these ideas reach
the public and maybe there still is some
influence of Plato and Aristotle on
British society that that we can detect
or we can talk about but actually
looking at all those intermediate stages
is really difficult and in doing that
work you gain a really rich and profound
appreciation for how the whole society
operates and the limited role that
philosophy textual philosophy plays now
to give another example k i'll stick
with Laos um I knew a lot about
communism before I ever went to Laos
both in terms of study and otherwise umm
in Laos the government system that the
government education system does teach
all the schoolchildren about communism
but what they actually learn is very
different from what you are I think
communism is one of the first shocks so
you know Karl Marx is one person Lenin
is another person and a standard term in
communism is marxist leninism that's a
school of philosophy with in communism
well this was so poorly translated into
modern Lao that the vast majority of
people I met in Laos they thought that
Lenin Marx was one person because they
hyphenated it Lenin Marx as one they
thought that was one man's name and even
out of the history of their own country
there were other examples of that where
there were two different two different
Communist rebel leaders on kale and
comedy and they thought that was one guy
that thought that was one long name for
one person it was two different
historical figures so that you know this
is me as an outsider I'm doing research
into the history communes in this
country and including communist ideology
and also the effects communism had on
Buddhism because the government
regulates the religion there and right
away I'm learning things that the vast
majority of people in that country are
not learning in school and then
you can look at an elite level what
about the tiny minority people in allows
who do go through you know university
education and communism and how do they
influence a site or not you can look at
the newspapers what do the newspapers
say about communism or the radio
programs within a country like that and
how do people actually relate to this
philosophy communism is not as ancient
as Aristotle it's not as ancient as
Plato it's not as ancient as Buddhism or
Confucianism or have you but still you
know the connection between philosophy
and culture is so distant and so thin
and so weak that you you just can't let
yourself get into that ego trip of
wandering around a country with a book
of ancient philosophy in your hand and
out of your own imagination identifying
things that you feel resonate in the
modern world with the ancient philosophy
now I've seen that go very far wrong in
China and also in Cambodia and elsewhere
sometimes like in Buddhism we know that
a certain idea only became influential
after 1875 you know some particular year
in the 19th century when new
translations and new publications
selected an idea from the ancient world
and made it popular and influential
again and it hadn't been before that and
you know you get Europeans talking about
the stuff as if there was an ancient
continuity that Buddhist philosophy had
never changed the nation that's not true
I'm it's true I be like with even with
Christian philosophy how is Christianity
different today from 1950 from 1850 from
1750 actually if you're going to do the
research there are tremendous
differences philosophically politically
and otherwise some of them explicitly
articulated is philosophy and some of
them implicit and unexamined so there's
there's a really subtle sort of ego trip
that tends to warp the way people
perceive the significance of philosophy
in the modern world and it's a even in
politics that significance can be very
slippery very hard to to grasp very hard
to define and you have to look at all
the intermediate stages of how that gets
redefined and and shared and understood
in in society as it actually exists um
end of answer to that question I guess
um I have another interesting question
or comment
from Virginia are so Virginia is
commenting on a question about something
that's been brought up a few different
times in my patron group it's been
mentioned on this YouTube channel not
too long ago the weakness of arguments
from evolution evolution anthropology
claiming the human beings are naturally
evolved to be vegan based on the shape
of our jaw of our teeth the nature of
our digestive tract and what have you
now uh so I agree with Virginia or
Virginia was writing and agreeing with
me uh that these are weak arguments for
veganism however there's a difference
between week and evil uh you know in my
earlier video I think the one showing
you film footage should be walking
through the streets of couldn't hang on
top of the stuff you know you gotta
remember this doesn't discredit veganism
it's okay to play around with these
ideas it's okay to discuss them with
your friends if you have friends who
find them interesting you know in
talking about vegans you can talk about
it I would not make it part of the
constitution of a vegan party I would
not make it part of my platform I'm
trying to convince the public of I mean
I even feel that way about the cancer
statistics I would never say like the
strong you know the strong argument for
veganism is based on a certain
percentage difference in the rate of
cancer but it's interesting and it's
fine to play with it's fine to discuss
your friends so I think you know the
weakness of the argument is worth
thinking about i mean i just mentioned
within the within the mammal kingdom why
do pigs have such tremendously powerful
jaws they're quite it's quite
frightening how powerful a pig's jaws in
the wild the wild pig a wild boar well
for one thing it's because they don't
have any hands to use too many pure
light things they have to be able to
crack open crack open a coconut crack
open you know both animal and vegetable
matter with their jaw alone without
being able to use hands or tools or what
have you and you can see that that kind
of massive powerful jaw with some other
animals human beings are an extreme
example where we can use our hands and
we can use tools to break food into
pieces to accomplish other tasks then we
rely less on the sheer power of our jaw
to do
um so as a broad pattern you know some
anthropologists argue that the the
withering away of the human jaw in
relatively recent evolutionary time
reflects the fact that in comparison to
some of our most ancient ancestors we
rely less on cracking things open with
our teeth so is this really an argument
for veganism or does this just reflect
you know the type of jaw we have does it
just reflect the type of hand we have
and the overall sort of synergy that
exists within within evolution and
anthropological adaptation or what have
you um the difference though is this
doesn't discredit veganism this idea if
you find it interesting to talk about
anthropology and evolution if you're in
a circle of people who find this
interesting rewarding to reflect on fine
do it if you're in a circle of people
who are really interested in cancer
research I'd say fine do it you know you
want to talk about veganism can I can
imagine someone having a whole youtube
channel just devoted to the latest
cancer research i can imagine someone
having that as a hobby or courses the
profession if they're a medical doctor
there's nothing wrong with that but you
know I would never have a street protest
I would never march down the street
holding a poster saying don't you
realize this is the anatomy of your jaw
you know like this is the structure of
the bones in your jaw therefore you
should be vegan to me that's not the
basis for a public protest or for a
political movement it's just not strong
enough for that and likewise the stuff
with cancer I think it's important and
it's interesting and again you can play
with it it doesn't discredit veganism in
any way but again I would not have a
poster on the street saying don't you
realize you can reduce your chances of
getting cancer by this percentage than
this many years it's just not that
strong it's not it's not as strong as
the ethical core or the ecological core
of what we're doing here in veganism now
the problem is so I'm still sick i'm
still coughing i still look exhausted
but that's cool many of the things that
people have been presenting as the core
v as many things people have been
arguing for do discredit veganism
and I've complained about that on this
channel at great length so again if
you're putting into categories their
arguments for veganism that are strong
and crucial and central and part of the
core veganism the things that are not as
central that are a bit weaker still
interesting still fun to play with but
there's a category of things that
actually do discredit us that make us
sound insane that our self contradictory
that are hypocritical or that set up
standards for us we can't possibly
maintain like I've raised this issue you
know I've been one of the only channels
while you talking about Earth way about
killing insects to say look killing
insects killing rats I don't see any
point in making the premise of veganism
a kind of perfect moral purity of
religious moral purity like the giant
religion in India or you know some forms
of Buddhism where you know I don't see
any point in being in denial about the
fact that modern agriculture including
vegan agriculture raising raising food
raising fruit raising grains that yeah
that type of farming does kill insects
it does kill many mammals to mammals
like Gophers and groundhogs that yes
although we're trying to minimize harm
to animals we could have a down-to-earth
pragmatic attitude towards the reality
the harm we do we should appreciate the
difference we can make and we should go
honest with the difference of chemic so
you know whether it's the lifestyle
activism whether it's some of the you
know bikini and bicycle activism whether
it's the pseudoscience if you know
trying to prevent the present veganism
as a almost you know religious diet
based on the belief that garlic contains
a neurotoxin you know I myself am a
caffeine avoider I'm against caffeine
but I don't exaggerate the the negative
impacts of caffeine I recognize that
millions of people manage their caffeine
in their lives but still I don't advise
using caffeine I advise people not to
use it you know pseudoscience fad diets
extreme political views of different
kinds there are so many things that do
discredit veganism that we need to
exclude in that third category but
there's a there's a broad middle
category of things that you know where i
can say go ahead have fun with it you
know if you personally find
evolutionary theory fascinating okay and
you may have a circle of friends you
find it fascinating you may be at a
school where there are other students
who are really interested in theories of
evolution and human adaptation where
this gets results but no that's not what
the protest march is going to be based
on and if you're going to start a vegan
foundation i do not think that's what
the constitution of the foundation
should be based on okay guys another two
questions in under 20 minutes